







AGILE SOFTWARE ENGINEERING:

PRODUCT PLANNING AND REFINEMENT

JOHN STOUBY PERSSON

Last lecture objectives



An overview of eXtreme Programming (XP)

Basic skills in estimation of software development tasks

Prepared to chose and adapt a development method for a specific project

Lecture objectives



An overview of product planning and refinement techniques.

Skills in working with product visions, roadmaps, user story mapping, the product backlog, and product planning.

Competencies to manage the development of a software product.




What is the difference between a project versus a product in:
1. How many times is it delivered?
2. What is most in focus: verifying all requirements are implemented or validating that they are fit for use?
3. Which of the key activities in software engineering (Specification, design and development, validation, evolution) are considered?





Product Planning

A custom software project is unique A --> B
A product demands ongoing development	A --> 8


Succeeding with agile methods in software product teams:


1. Product manager is product owner
2. Product planning is shorter and rolling
3. Do design as part of backlog refinement
4. Design in small and independent chunks
5. Replace requirements docs with prototypes & user stories
6. 
Let the team chunk functionality into sprints
7. Socialize and communicate between team, PO and others
8. Product increments are released to users when sufficient functionality is available
9. Demo current state of product every sprint
10. Train people in agile






What is the difference between a project versus a product in how requirements are established from the understanding of needs and users:
1. When are requirements established?
2. How often are requirements adjusted?
3. What drives changes to requirements?




















PRODUCT VISION AND ROADMAP (PICHLER)














7

Product roadmaps


Timeline








Elevator Pitch

For <target customer/user>
who <statement of need> the <product name>
       is a <product category> that provides these <key benefits>
       unlike <primary competition> our product <is different in these ways>











PRODUCT BACKLOG, SPRINT PLANNING, USER STORY MAPPING

















12

User Story delivery




User Role (Who?)	End Result (Why?)




As a <type of user>, I can <immediate goal> so that <reason>.








2-4 weeks








Sprint Backlog	Running tested features

Product Backlog

Personas (Roman Pichler)














What does the persona look like?
What is its name?

What are the persona's relevant charateristics and behaviors?

Why would the persona want to use or buy the product?
What benefit should be achieved?
Which problem should be solved?

User Story Mapping





Story Map Process

1. Frame: The big story (What, Who, Why)



2. Map the big picture: The activities and high-level user tasks forming the backbone



3. Explore: Breakdown into subtasks

Story Map Process

4. Slice out Viable Releases: Increments with named outcomes and sucess metrics




5. Slice out a Development Strategy: An opening, mid, and endgame for the product

Forecasting User Story Delivery (Fixed Scope or Time)
(Video: Agile Product Ownership in a Nutshell)
How much by?





The iron triangle of project management

Group exercises today

Exercise 1: Establish a Product Vision either for your semester project or an imaginary product (30%)
Exercise 2: Establish an elevator pitch (20%) Exercise 3: How is your product launched? (20%)
Exercise 4: Brainstorm possible users and stakeholders of your product (10%)
Exercise 5: Use the template and create 1-3 Personas (10%)
Exercise 6: Establish a user story map for your product (20%)
( 110% :) )

Lecture objectives



An overview of product planning and refinement techniques.

Skills in working with product visions, roadmaps, user story mapping, the product backlog, and product planning.

Competencies to manage the development of a software product.






















