







The Trackunit Way
The Way We Do Things Around Here










Søren Bruncke Mikkelsen

Senior Director of Engineering





2














Jonas van Vliet

Staff Software Engineer





3

01	The Trackunit Way - Why we exist Purpose and Ambition


Agenda

The Trackunit Way -
02	Who We Are and Strive
to Become
Past, Present, Future

The Trackunit Way -
How we deliver
Our Human Operating
System


04 New Product Tracks Scaling Product Engineering within a SaaS company


05 Becoming a Platform company Our way to building a world class software platform with the construction industry

06 You build it you run it With high empowerment comes great responsibility


07 Golden Path
why a golden path is a way to scale an organization while keeping authonomy

Scaling an engineering
08 organization




The Trackunit Way - Always in progress
The Trackunit Way is always in the making. It is a living, evolving mechanism that we want to work with in an intentional and deliberate way - what we do shapes who we are - and who we aspire to become.






We consider The Trackunit Way as a competitive advantage. While the world around us has changed dramatically over the past century, many of the ways organizations work - and think about people - have remained surprisingly unchanged. At Trackunit, we believe the way we work matters. And it has never been more important to be intentional about how we collaborate, lead, and grow together if we want to stay relevant, human, and competitive.

This is not an attempt to grasp the unique culture of Trackunit in all details. Neither is it meant as a step-by-step guidebook that is set in stone. It's made to spark inspiration and new ideas for those of us who've witnessed our evolutions, for new hires who will shape our future, and people considering to join us on our journey.

Welcome to our human operating system.

	



Purpose, and Ambition
Why We Exist















6


Be part of something bigger

At Trackunit, we're committed to construction - one of the largest industries in the world.


It's an industry of strong, hard-working people, building the infrastructure of our lives. An industry that used to be known for the cities it built and the landscapes it formed. For complex infrastructures and the rise of skyscrapers in unthinkable shapes and sizes.

Construction enables each one of us to live better lives through safer roads and rails, modern hospitals and schools, offices and homes. But for too long, the industry has been known for blown-up budgets and schedules delayed.

At Trackunit, we believe we can still do the impossible and rebuild the reputation of the industry.

New technology has emerged, and today we

know more than ever before. We build the services that enable construction to work smarter together and grow faster together.

An industry that has long been the laggard of digital transformation is now at a tipping point. Change is happening.

What impact are you going to make?

Our purpose


Our purpose decoded
Our purpose statement decodes what we do. Each word is deliberately chosen and carries meaning. Purpose is personal - it connects to each of us in different ways.
Use this as a guide to understand how your work
contributes to our shared mission.





Our approach is human, collaborative and based on co-creation. We are driven by a design thinking approach, being empathetic, iterative and always striving for an ecosystem-wide impact.

Downtime is the core of all problems in the construction industry. We address it through five key areas, looking at downtime through the lens of machines, humans, companies, our industry as a whole and society at large. Eliminating Downtime is the contribution made to create an impact beyond the industry because it exists in the world, for the world.



    Together, we Eliminate Downtime to build the most useful industry for the world




We are builders and doers by heart and committed to turn every relevant idea into a catalyst for change.



Being useful is the core DNA of our company. We always strive to walk on two legs, driving a highly commercial and impact-focused agenda at the same time.


Construction is a very big player in the world, and we have at least the same aspirations so that the industry can consciously create an impact for the world. By doing so, we deliberately balance an inwards focus with an outwards outlook because long- term relevance for any ambitious company will also be measured in the contribution outside of the industry.






We Put Our Money on

How Do We Do It?



The construction industry is our home. A tough industry with cool machines and cool people. We love machines and love to collaborate with people who love machines.



We unite the construction industry to Eliminate Downtime through a unique human operating system and a superior data-driven platform - always with a highly commercial, sustainable, and global ambition.

We are a trusted ecosystem orchestrator making the largest data lake in the industry useful to Eliminate Downtime. This is our contribution to anyone who wants to deliver impact

today and tomorrow through insights, products, services, and business models - all developed by people and for people.

We operate as global team, compassionately challenging the dogmas in how to be an inspiring and relevant industry always co-creating for a real impact.











Nobody is better than	everybody.
We trust each other and do the best of our work when we co-create and collaborate.

	



Past, Present, Future

Who We Are and Strive to Become






We Put Our Money on

Our Journey


Trackunit started as a technology company pushing innovation and pioneering technological progress before IoT was a thing.



Since then, our journey has been a story of growth, learning, and doing the impossible. Trackunit is focused on the construction industry where we are delivering both hardware and software to the global market with an ambition to eliminate downtime and turn construction into the most useful industry for the world. The pioneering spirit is still intact - we drive for progress and impact, and the people are the true secret sauce to the journey.

How do we unlock creativity, empower and inspire people, and shape what's next for our industry?


That's what we're asking ourselves every single day in our pursuit to foster a workplace where we can all bring out our full potential and play to each other's strengths.

The journey ahead with scaling and building a platform for construction equipment calls for courageous ownership, compassionate collaboration, and a relentless focus on solving what truly matters, both now and in the long run.

Empowering people to act with clarity and purpose unlocks imagination, accelerates progress, and ensures we deliver on our collective promise.

Growing Our Footprint
Trackunit is the global market leader in brand-agnostic IoT solutions for construction equipment





400
Employees

400-500
Employees



Half a decade ago, Trackunit was a local business providing hardware to track construction equipment.

Today, we have grown into a SaaS- company and a thought leader servicing the needs of the entire ecosystem of stakeholders within construction.

Doubling down on equipment

connectivity in existing markets and growing our network, Trackunit is ready to take the industry into a digital future.

Looking further into the future of the industry, Trackunit is well-positioned to facilitate and capitalize on the immense digitalization the construction industry is leaning into.





50
Employees


350
Employees






1998	2003-15	2016-21	2022	2023	2024



M-Tec A/S
established.

Trackunit brand established.

Trackunit subsidiaries established across Western Europe.

Trackunit acquired by investment group of Goldman Sachs and GRO.

Entry into the North
American market.

Trackunit Iris platform
launched to market.

Acquires Dreyer & Trimm,
and Satrak.

Entry into APJ market.

Trackunit acquired by Hg
Capital.

Trackunit acquires Industrial
loT division of ZTR.

Circa DKK 1 billion net
revenue.

Launches 5G, second- generation Spot connecting high-value, non-powered assets to ecosystem.

Stages first-ever Trackunit
NEXT event.

Trackunit Kin wins Rental Awards Editor's Choice 2022.

Posts net revenue of DKK
1.2b.

Acquires German ConTech Flexcavo, US deployment specialist OEMSi.

Launches Emissions Reporting solutions; new-gen Access Management.

Initial launch of Marketplace and Platform SDK to facilitate ecosystem co- creation and empower partners.





A global SaaS business
450+
People all over the world

13
Hubs all over the world

8.3/10
Employee
Engagement

45+
Nationalities

	


Our human operating
system

How We Deliver




Future Partnerships



Broader Ecosystem


Stewards of A Global Ecosystem


Connected by Purpose, Powered by Insights



OEM







Contractor

Rental


The industry thrives on collaboration. At Trackunit, we bring industry professionals, partners, customers, and employees together to share knowledge, solve challenges, and drive meaningful change.

We operate within a Connected Ecosystem-an industry-wide network where people, machines, and insights come together to eliminate downtime.

By integrating data-driven insights with strong partnerships, we empower our ecosystem to work smarter, safer, and more efficiently.

Our role? We are more than a technology provider; we are an ecosystem orchestrator, ensuring that every connection-whether digital, human, or operational- creates value.







A Human- Centric Organization
At Trackunit, we don't have employees - we are people on a mission
together.

Our success as a company is built on a deep understanding of human nature. We design our organization to reflect how people truly flourish - embedding trust, care, and purpose into everything we do.

Our ambition is clear: To set a new standard for what a truly human- centric organization looks like.

We Work with Purpose
Everyone at Trackunit should have the opportunity to do meaningful work. We help people connect their strengths to our mission - because when work matters, impact follows.



We are Built on Trust
We trust each other to take ownership, make an impact, and shape the future of Trackunit. We don't micromanage - we empower.



We Make Life Work
Work should be a fulfilling part of life, not something that competes with it. We support flexibility and balance, so people can bring their best selves to work and beyond

We Unfold Human Potential
We create an environment where people do their best work and grow with us. We unlock potential by being close enough to see it, and by creating opportunity, and support to unfold it.



We Design for Belonging
One size fits no one. We see and value each person's unique contributions appreciating that complementarity is what make our teams perform at their best.



We Win Together
Nobody is better than everybody. We succeed when we collaborate, challenge each other, and build something bigger than ourselves.






Orchestrating a Community


It takes a village to raise a child they say.
A big, wicked challenge like eliminating downtime is also something that calls for an entire community to come together. Research shows that people flourish and work at their best in organizations that establish meaning, autonomy, freedom and mastery.

That's why we do everything we can to keep our hearts, minds, and brains open - just like we strive to keep our organizational boundaries open.



To be something for the world, we're on a journey towards an unlimited organization and to orchestrate a sense of community across functions and levels of the industry. We work outside in - always co-creating with customers, partners, competitors, associations, freelancers, and thought leaders.


Our bias for building trust and connection is what sets us apart from the rest.







Show Compassion.


The Principles We Live by
What we should know and do to deliver
on our purpose and strategy.

We practice compassion by actively listening without judgment, seeking to understand before responding. We approach conversations with curiosity, self- awareness, and emotional intelligence, ensuring that feedback is delivered with honesty, respect, and a genuine desire to help. While empathy allows us to recognize others' emotions, compassion moves us to take action - supporting our colleagues in thriving and growing.


Win now. Win later.
We stay focused on our ultimate goals, knowing that if we fixate only on the next step, we risk losing our balance. To drive real impact and achieve our business objectives, we solve the problems that truly matter with curiosity, agility, and a commitment to learning. We move beyond emotional arguments, instead articulating and testing hypotheses with data, facts, and proof points. Winning isn't just about Trackunit - it's about catalyzing the ecosystem and creating lasting impact beyond our company.

Own Your Part.
We take responsibility for achieving real results by owning our part in every challenge and opportunity - while ensuring it is well-integrated with the bigger picture. We engage others, foster a strong sense of ownership, and follow through on our commitments. Organizational change starts with personal change, so we hold ourselves 100% accountable for our actions and words - and we support those around us in doing the same, recognizing that true ownership includes collaboration and alignment with others.













Scaling Product Engineering within a SaaS company
New Product Tracks










Empowered product teams solving real problems

With Increased Focus








22 













The 4 key areas of product craftsmanship:
Customer Value
Does the proposed solution provide real value to our customers?
Will they buy it or choose to use it?
Business Viability
Will this solution work for the various dimensions of our business?
Usability
Can customers and users figure out how to use it?
Feasibility
Can we build it with the time, skills, and technology we have?

A product manager is accountable for
ensuring value and viability
A design lead is accountable for ensuring usability
An engineering lead is accountable for
ensuring feasibility

However, the team members have a shared responsibility for this and truly collaborate in an intense, give and take, to discover the best
solution for the market.








Product teams








Solution space

With New Product Tracks we changing from Feature teams to Product teams - increased focus on business outcome.

Staffing to match the process stage.






Problem scope






Launch

Product teams are empowered, autonomous and accountable for defined problems and solutions to these.

The portfolio lens adds the following:
- Work towards the portfolio objective
- Align on strategy across teams
- Increased involvement in decisions across teams
- Support from leads in alignment, strategy
and craftmanship.




Engineering	Design	Product management






 ro u t es n

 ro u t tea 



 ro u t
 ana e ent



 n neer n 

 ro u t tea 





 ro u t tea 


 ro u t tea 









Product
team






 ro u t tea 


 ro u t es n






 ro u t tea 

Portfolio teams

With New Product Tracks we are introducing product portfolios to better support our product teams





Product
team





Product
management





Engineering



Product
team

A Portfolio org is 2-5 product teams under shared leadership.

Portfolio leads are aligned across product


o u t

management, engineering and design. Their

ea 









 n neer n 







 ro u t tea 







Product


Product Design







Product

job is to support the teams with:
- Strategic alignment
- Distributed decision making
- Product craftmanship

 t es n

team

team





 ro u t tea 





 ro u t tea 





 ro u t tea 



 ro u t



 n neer n 

 ro u t tea 

	





How are we organized?







https://trackunit.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/Products/pages/4823908420/ Overview+Product+Areas



26











Product Roadmap
https://trackunit.com/product-portal/























27

Product Engineering Demoes - example















Product Development Lifecycle (PDLC)

Overview



• 4 Core Phases
Customer-Problem Fit ? Problem-Solution Fit ? Product-Market Fit ? End of Life.
Ensures customer needs are understood, validated, solved, and scaled sustainably
• 8 Stages
Define the "how" of delivery, guiding execution and tangible outcomes.
• Gates (Decision Checkpoints)
Formal review points between stages for go/no-go decisions.
Ensure accountability, alignment, and quality before progressing.
• Governance Model (DRCI Framework)
Driver, Responsible, Consulted, Informed roles clarify ownership.
Promotes transparency, efficient collaboration, and clear decision-making.

PDLC - Detailed view





































30

SDLC





































31



SDLC - Design docs
When to use design docs:

• Make a substantial change to existing TU components and/or Features

• Introduce new features to the TU platform

• Add a new K8S deployment

• Use a new technology not on the Tech Radar

You do not need to go through the design review process for - Bug fixes - Smaller changes to existing components, that doesn't affect customers

Submitting a Design Doc

• Go to Design Docs repository

• Create a branch

• Copy the template.md Design Doc template, naming it domain-feature-
<release1>-yyyymm.md

• Place it in the /docs folder

• All dependent assets of the design doc should be placed in it's own folder domain-feature-<release1> + In case of diagrams they must be in a format viewable in githubs editor, e.g. png + In case the viewable format is created from a source this source must be included, e.g. drawio.xml

• If multiple releases/drops are not anticipated the "release1" part of the
naming is optional

• Submit a pull request

• Trackunit/engineering-architecture-group should be automatically assigned as reviewers to the PR



32

SDLC - team responsibilities





































33














With high empowerment comes great responsibility

You build it you run it

	





IRIS - Platform overview
















35

Iris architecture - Business perspective





































36

Iris architecture





































37

Iris in numbers








38

Interconnected microservices





































39

Interconnected microservices





































40





















Component ownership












42

SDLC - team responsibilities





































43

Component ownership





Cost
You are responsible for making informed decisions that lead to a reasonable cost of your services

Security
You are responsible for ensuring your components are patched, secure and well designed from a security perspective

Availability
You are responsible for ensuring your component is up, fast and are also the one that will fix it if it breaks

Maintainability
You are responsible for ensuring that you make technical decisions that favor maintainability.

Observability
You are responsible for ensuring that your component can be monitored, has the right alerts, dashboards and logging.

Testing



Component ownership



Opslevel component view



Opslevel component view



Opslevel driving component compliance










Driving operational maturity
Checks enforced in the pipeline around
topics such as

• Service ownership

• Observability
• Cost control

• Iris API golden path

• Frontend




















50














Our way to building a world class software platform with the construction industry
Golden Path


Golden paths





• Opinionated and supported path to building software

• Multiple golden paths exists

• Governed by communities and teams

• By choosing to follow the golden path, you will get things out
of the box, such as backup, monitoring or other























53

Postgres golden path





































54











08	Scaling an engineering organization

2018




Scaling to 200 people


































57

New challenges


• Multiple solutions to crosscutting concerns were made

• Larger code base that need to be maintained

• Reorganizing teams led to difficulty maintaining code

• Specialist knowledge required to scale (security, databases, servers, API design)

• Higher focus on security

• Management lacked insight into engineering org performance

• Higher focus on uptime and incident management

• 2018 alignment mechanisms did not work

• Production system configuration overview missing
58

What did we change


Introduced developer enablement team handling crosscutting concerns Aligned technologies and tools used
Introduced communities to facilitate knowledge sharing Built golden paths to support common development work Measure the performance of the engineering organization
Introduced incident process to ensure consistent incident handling
Introduced team ownership
Adopt declarative approach to running software and use Gitops
















59

Team constellation - 2025



Developer enablement team


Responsibilities

• Servers
• Network
• Databases - traditional and NoSQL
• Monitoring stack - application logs, metrics and traces
• Backup
• Kubernetes

Provides teams a simple interface to run applications
Product teams need only a minimal understanding about the above











61



Tech radar





• Familiar tech
• Focus on fewer technologies



























62

Creating alignment








63

Organization performance
What to measure? Lines of code written?

DevOps Research and Assessment (DORA) suggests measuring
- How long it takes to make a new release
- How often you deliver a new release to customers
- How often a delivery is faulty (in %)
- How long it takes to fix a faulty release








64

Declarative configuration


"Start two instances of telematics-device-api" (action)

vs

"Two instances of telematics-device-api are running" (desired state)






















65

Before Gitops














66

After Gitops













67
